---
layout: post
title:      "“Why did you decide to study Software Engineering?”"
date:       2020-02-02 15:57:30 -0500
permalink:  why_did_you_decide_to_study_software_engineering
---


For the past nine years I had been working as news and entertainment photographer. I've been following news stories, celebrities, political scandals, and fashion trends to get photos and  get them published. For a while, this felt so  good,  that I thought  that I could do it for life. It felt amazing, I could do what I love and get paid for it.   As I got better my photos were published in local, as well as foreign media outlets- magazines, daily newspapers, news and fashion blogs, etc.  Eventually, I established good relationships with major photo agencies like Getty Images, and others. And as my skills got better the business of editorial photography was hitting its all time low. The  factors like copyright infringement, social media, cellphones, and subscription deals, which allowed a large media outlets to pay a fixed annual fee and be able to use unlimited amount of content, are all responsible for editorial photography industry to decline tremendously. And most of all I stopped learning new things and started  getting borred with what I was doing.  For the past year and a half I started looking around, and searching for new opportunities, and researching a number of different professional fields. I was looking for something I would be excited about, something challanging, something where I can learn new things everyday. And as I saw one industry fall measurably, another industry, the tech industry, entered its Golden Age. Thus tech became the  answer for me. 

There are a few reasons **"Why did I decide to study Software Engineering?**". First of all, as cheesy as it sounds, I'd like to be a part of the future, I want to be relevant, up to date with my skill set, and in demand;  and Software Engineering has all of these things to offer. Software Engeneering requires you to learn new things and aquire new skills all the time, it requires you learn new languages and new ways of doing things, and I love learning and solving problems; I'm willing to take on the challlanges to become a Software Engeneer.  Secondly, the tech industry is very broad, a software engineer can work anywhere from financial institutions to educational ones, from Nasa to British Petroleum, from medical to military, and I like this variety of opportunities. I'm yet to find the right field in which I'd like to work as a software engeneer. I hope the field I find will allow me to incorparate my  knowledge of design and photography. Thirdly, possibility of travel and work remotely. I often hear from my programer friends about traveling the world both for  work and pleasure and being able to work from the places they feel the most comfortable. Being able to relocate to another city like London, Seattle, or Cupertino for a while, to experience something new,  meet new collegues, and learn from someone more experienced, sounds particularly appealing. Lastly, be in demand and getting paid accordingly for your skills and knowledge as you get better is one of the major factors why I choose to become a software engineer. I started learning to code only a few months ago, and the deeper I dive into it, the more I realize that it becomes my passion, I feel about coding now, the same way I used to feel about editorial photography fresh out of College, except now with a lot more certainty.  


